Add docs for third party code donations (#550)
cert-manager/website: content/en/docs/contributing/third-party-code-donation.md

relating to the cert-manager project.

This document aims to address the donation of code to the cert-manager project, and to provide a
framework for sustainable contributions which can be tested and relied upon going forwards by both
cert-manager maintainers and users.

The requirements in this document are based in part on what's done for CoreDNS, Envoy, Kubernetes
and containerd.

## Requirements

- Code must be licensed appropriately, including any dependencies   
  We'd prefer [Apache 2.0](https://tldrlegal.com/license/apache-license-2.0-(apache-2.0)) since that's
  what cert-manager [uses](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/blob/master/LICENSE), but the
  license must be [OSI approved](https://opensource.org/licenses).
- Code must conform to CNCF standards and due diligence requirements   
  You don't need to go over this with a fine-toothed comb; the intent here is that no code donation
  should have a negative effect on cert-manager's progress as a CNCF project. See the
  [CNCF due diligence template](https://github.com/cncf/toc/blob/main/process/dd-review-template.md)

> - Must have a sponsor by an existing maintainer   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Must be sponsored by an existing maintainer   
```

  An existing regular contributor to cert-manager must sponsor the adoption of any third party code
  donation. This ensures that there's a single point of contact for the party donating the code.
- Must pass cert-manager conformance tests   
  This might not apply to all donations, but where conformance tests exist any donated code must
  pass them. E.g. for [external issuers](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/blob/dffbf391dbb0fc6c1cfea62e561a9c6f54362ab0/test/e2e/suite/conformance/certificates/external/external.go#L41-L62)
- Must provide a point-of-contact for questions about the project for at least 3 months after acceptance
  We don't anticipate that we'd need to reach out often after the donation has been accepted,

>   but it's important to have someone we can reach out to if we need to.

Reviewer: Not to be morbid, but what happens if one is offered and then on the 88th day they're gone?

Will you remove the contribution?

Author: Yeah I did consider this in a similarly morbid way, but I just figured if that unfortunate situation happened everyone would just be reasonable and work it out; if the project hadn't had any major issues, it would just be accepted and if there were still significant issues we'd just have to discuss it.

If I tried to spend too much time anticipating possibilities like that, I feel the document would grow a lot and could end up being a bit much. Mostly if something diverged from these guidelines for whatever reason, we'd end up chatting about it and working it out in one of the biweekly meetings.

- The donation must be a defined extension type or justify why it doesn't belong in the main repositories   
  E.g. an ACME DNS solver, a custom issuer or an ACME HTTP solver
- Code must have a similar level of quality to cert-manager itself
  This could be enforced by, for example, running static analysis tools on the code base similar to
  those used by cert-manager.
- Code must have a non-trivial test suite, including both unit tests and end-to-end tests
  These tests must be able to be run in their entirety after a PR is raised against the repo. We don't
  need 100% code coverage, but there should be tests for important functionality.
- The project must adopt the cert-manager security policy and link back to the policy, as in e.g.

>   [the istio-csr `SECURITY.md`](https://github.com/cert-manager/istio-csr/blob/master/SECURITY.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the [istio-csr `SECURITY.md`](https://github.com/cert-manager/istio-csr/blob/master/SECURITY.md)
```

> - Must have DCO sign-offs for all commits in place to ensure the code can legally be donated,
>   or else must have a positive DCO affirmation made by each contributor prior to donation. See below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Must have DCO sign-offs or coverage for all commits
  To ensure the code can legally be donated, all commits must have DCO,
  or else there must be a positive DCO affirmation made by each contributor prior to donation. See below.
```

Reviewer: I should explain this change. the general style appears to be:

- thing that doesn't end in a period
  This is a paragraph. This is a sentence.

This item didn't match that style.

Author: Agreed, it was janky and your version is much better; thanks :+1:

## Preferences

These items are not absolutely necessary but they definitely help if a code donation is to be accepted.

> - Must be written in Go   
>   We don't _need_ code to be written in Go, but we'd much prefer that it is. Since cert-manager itself

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Should be written in Go   
  We don't _need_ code to be written in Go, but we'd much prefer that it is. Since cert-manager itself
```

---
title: "Donating Third Party Code to cert-manager"
linkTitle: "Third Party Code Donations"
weight: 120
type: "docs"
---

The cert-manager project welcomes external contributions and has benefited greatly from thousands
of commits from hundreds of different contributors. Most code is usually committed through pull
requests to a specific repo, whether that be the main cert-manager repository or one of the associated
repositories such as the website.

Some contributions aren't as well suited to that kind of workflow, however. That would most likely
be because their functionality doesn't belong in any particular existing cert-manager repo, while still
relating to the cert-manager project.

This document aims to address the donation of code to the cert-manager project, and to provide a
framework for sustainable contributions which can be tested and relied upon going forwards by both
cert-manager maintainers and users.

The requirements in this document are based in part on what's done for CoreDNS, Envoy, Kubernetes
and containerd.

## Requirements

> - Code must be licensed appropriately, including any dependencies   

Reviewer 2: worth using numbers? Easier for referencing to specific points.

Reviewer: If you use `### name`, you can link to anchors...

But, yeah, bullets are probably least recommended for things like this. Some identifier would be preferable.

Author: Agreed that an ordered list beats an unordered list here, I'll make that change.
